# IEHC0046 Medical Statistics

## PART 1:
Analysis of the relationship between bronchitis in children and dampness at home. Data from 3,332 boys and girls were collected in a cross-sectional study of respiratory health in primary school children aged 7-10 years. Parents of all children were asked a series of questions about respiratory health of their children, and about a range of potential exposures and risk factors for respiratory health. A selection of the data is available to you in this exercise. It has been hypothesized that children from a household which reported damp spots or mould on the walls (exposure) are more likely to report doctor-diagnosed bronchitis (outcome) than children not exposed to dampness and mould at home.

## Part 2:
Analysis of the relationship between occupational class (exposure) and lung function (outcome). Data come from a cross-sectional survey where people were asked a range of questions and participated in a short examination. Data were collected for 3899 people who were aged between 50 and 70. All participants were invited to participate in a lung function examination. Participants also had their BBMI measured at the same time. All other variables were self-reported and were collected during interviews. Participants were asked what their longest-held occupation was, and then their occupation was grouped into three classes based on the National Statistics Socio-economic Classification (NS-SEC) 3 class version: Professional/Managerial (most advantaged); Skilled non-manual; Manual/Routine (least advantaged). The lung function was measured by how much air (litres) a person can exhale during a forced breath. In this study, lung function ranged from 0.09 litres to 5.58 litres (a higher number means a better lung function). 
